skeleton.md, before:

<!---
 | This is a skeleton for all of the recipe files.  Use this as a
 | basis, just remove the details and fill in your own.
 |
 | Everything between these delimiters is a comment.
 | You can remove them from your actual .md file (will keep the
 | output file smaller.)
 -->
<!---
 | Following is the header, or what is referred to in markdown parlance
 | as 'front-matter'.  The fields in here are required and must be
 | valid.  Use the example data to guide your input.
 -->
---
title: "Hollandaise"
date: 2020-04-28
category: sauces
author: Rick
source: Various
serves: 2
image: "Eggs Benedict_l.png"
slug: "hollandaise"
<!--- 
 | the _slug_ is the final part of the link, for instance in this link:
 |     
 |    https://<hostname.com>/recipe/sausage-and-peppers
 |
 | the _slug_ is 'sausage-and-peppers'
 -->
---
### Description

<!--- 
 | A description of the recipe goes here.  Keep it short.
 -->

### Tools

<!---
 | Most common tools will likely be mentioned in the _method_ section.
 | If there is something specific or unusual to the recipe, list it
 | here.
 |
 | Also a bullet (unordered) list.
 -->

* _bain-marie_ set
or
* Small saucepan +
* Stainless bowl that fits on top without touching the water (see notes.)

### Ingredients

<!---
 | This is a bullet list of the ingredients.
 | You can preface it with a paragraph, if you want to say
 | something specific about the ingredients.
 |
 | Preface quantities with a simple number or fraction.
 |
 | Measurement unit abbreviations should be consistent and are:
 |
 |  T - tablespoon
 |  t - teaspoon
 |  c - cup
 |  lb | pound
 |  oz | ounce
 -->

* 1 egg yolk per serving.
* 1T water per yolk &ndash; substitute dry vermouth for every third yolk, if using.
* 1-1/2T butter per yolk
* lemon juice to taste
* salt to taste

### Method

<!---
 | Ordered list of steps to create the recipe.
 | Unless you break the list, you can just use '1. ' to
 | specify a list item.
 |
 | Note you can't put a line break in an item - line breaks
 | Define a new item or paragraph.  Turn wrap on in your editor
 | to see the full line.
 |
 | For side steps, you can embed a bullet list.  See the example
 | of how to do that.  To resume the order list of steps, you have
 | specify the next numeric index where you left off.
 -->

1. In the small pan, heat 2-3 inches of water to hot, but not boiling.
1. Cut the butter into smallish pieces and put on ice.  Needs to stay cold.
1. Mix the egg yolks and water in the bowl.
1. Place the bowl over the pan.
1. Start beating the mix with a whisk.  __DO NOT__ take your attention off this.  _If_ you have to do something else (for a moment), take the bowl off the pan and return it when you're done.
1. The mixture will froth up a bit and expand.  This is good.
1. As the mixture just starts to set &ndash; you'll see light folds between the whisk strokes &ndash; but _before_ you can see the bottom of the bowl between whisk strokes), add butter one piece at a time, whisking constantly.
1. Add salt and continue to stir until dissolved.
1. When all of the butter is incorporated and the sauce is smooth, add salt and sprinkle in lemon juice &ndash; taste just until the tang is right.

### Notes
<!---
 | Another ordered list of anything else you want to talk about.
 -->

1. You don't want to heat the yolk mixture, directly (unless you're super-good at controlling heat.) Use the or small saucepan and stainless bowl to control the temperature.
1. You can't let your attention wander for this &ndash; set aside the time so that you can do the sauce and nothing else until it's done.  As you gain experience, you might be able to multi-task.
1. If the mixture gets too hot, lift the bowl off the pan and keep going.  The water in the pan should not be boiling, but it often does when it's capped.  Put the bowl back on if it gets too cool.
1. The sauce will come out remarkably better if you use good butter.  _Plugra_, _KerryGold_ or similar works well.
1. If it breaks, toss in a small piece of ice.  It _might_ fix it.
1. When done, don't try to leave the bowl on the pan to keep the sauce warm &ndash; it will break.  Take it off the pan and return it just before you're ready to serve ro heat it up.
1. You can save the remainder.  To restore it, pull it out of the fridge, reheat gently, stirring constantly and keep a piece of ice on hand if it breaks.  Or stick it in the microwave on a _really_ low setting for 30 seconds and stir like crazy when you pull it out.
1. Required for [Eggs Benedict](/recipes/sauces/eggs-benedict) or Eggs Florentine, but awesome over fish or asparagus or ...

Commit message:

Categories are derived and set from the path structure.

skeleton.md, after:

<!---
 | This is a skeleton for all of the recipe files.  Use this as a
 | basis, just remove the details and fill in your own.
 |
 | Everything between these delimiters is a comment.
 | You can remove them from your actual .md file (will keep the
 | output file smaller.)
 -->
<!---
 | Following is the header, or what is referred to in markdown parlance
 | as 'front-matter'.  The fields in here are required and must be
 | valid.  Use the example data to guide your input.
 |
 | Categories are self-discovered through the directory structure.
 | To create a new category, make a new folder under the 'recipes'
 | folder (lower case, only.)  Then create a '+intro' html file using
 | an existing one as a guide.  Make sure you change the slug.
 -->
---
title: "Hollandaise"
date: 2020-04-28
author: Rick
source: Various
serves: 2
image: "Eggs Benedict.png"
slug: "hollandaise"
<!--- 
 | the _slug_ is the final part of the link, for instance in this link:
 |     
 |    https://<hostname.com>/recipe/sausage-and-peppers
 |
 | the _slug_ is 'sausage-and-peppers'
 -->
---
### Description

<!--- 
 | A description of the recipe goes here.  Keep it short.
 -->

### Tools

<!---
 | Most common tools will likely be mentioned in the _method_ section.
 | If there is something specific or unusual to the recipe, list it
 | here.
 |
 | If a simple listing, use a bullet (unordered) list.  A short
 | paragraph is ok, too, if you need to explain more.
 -->

* _bain-marie_ set
or
* Small saucepan +
* Stainless bowl that fits on top without touching the water (see notes.)

### Ingredients

<!---
 | This is a bullet list of the ingredients.
 | You can preface it with a paragraph, if you want to say
 | something specific about the ingredients.
 |
 | Preface quantities with a simple number or fraction.
 |
 | Measurement unit abbreviations should be consistent and are:
 |
 |  T - tablespoon
 |  t - teaspoon
 |  c - cup
 |  lb | pound
 |  oz | ounce
 -->

* 1 egg yolk per serving.
* 1T water per yolk &ndash; substitute dry vermouth for every third yolk, if using.
* 1-1/2T butter per yolk
* lemon juice to taste
* salt to taste

### Method

<!---
 | Ordered list of steps to create the recipe.
 | Unless you break the list, you can just use '1. ' to
 | specify a list item.
 |
 | Note you can't put a line break in an item - line breaks
 | Define a new item or paragraph.  Turn wrap on in your editor
 | to see the full line.
 |
 | For side steps, you can embed a bullet list.  See the example
 | of how to do that.  To resume the order list of steps, you have
 | specify the next numeric index where you left off.
 -->

1. In the small pan, heat 2-3 inches of water to hot, but not boiling.
1. Cut the butter into smallish pieces and put on ice.  Needs to stay cold.
1. Mix the egg yolks and water in the bowl.
1. Place the bowl over the pan.
1. Start beating the mix with a whisk.  __DO NOT__ take your attention off this.  _If_ you have to do something else (for a moment), take the bowl off the pan and return it when you're done.
1. The mixture will froth up a bit and expand.  This is good.
1. As the mixture just starts to set &ndash; you'll see light folds between the whisk strokes &ndash; but _before_ you can see the bottom of the bowl between whisk strokes), add butter one piece at a time, whisking constantly.
1. Add salt and continue to stir until dissolved.
1. When all of the butter is incorporated and the sauce is smooth, add salt and sprinkle in lemon juice &ndash; taste just until the tang is right.

### Notes
<!---
 | Another ordered list of anything else you want to talk about.
 -->

1. You don't want to heat the yolk mixture, directly (unless you're super-good at controlling heat.) Use the or small saucepan and stainless bowl to control the temperature.
1. You can't let your attention wander for this &ndash; set aside the time so that you can do the sauce and nothing else until it's done.  As you gain experience, you might be able to multi-task.
1. If the mixture gets too hot, lift the bowl off the pan and keep going.  The water in the pan should not be boiling, but it often does when it's capped.  Put the bowl back on if it gets too cool.
1. The sauce will come out remarkably better if you use good butter.  _Plugra_, _KerryGold_ or similar works well.
1. If it breaks, toss in a small piece of ice.  It _might_ fix it.
1. When done, don't try to leave the bowl on the pan to keep the sauce warm &ndash; it will break.  Take it off the pan and return it just before you're ready to serve ro heat it up.
1. You can save the remainder.  To restore it, pull it out of the fridge, reheat gently, stirring constantly and keep a piece of ice on hand if it breaks.  Or stick it in the microwave on a _really_ low setting for 30 seconds and stir like crazy when you pull it out.
1. Required for [Eggs Benedict](/recipes/sauces/eggs-benedict) or Eggs Florentine, but awesome over fish or asparagus or ...
